# Metrics Advisor function hook handler

## MetricsAdvisorHookTrigger - Python

The `metrics_advisor_hook_trigger` is a Http trigger for alert event that triggers by a hook configuration. See [Metrics Advisor Hook Configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/applied-ai-services/metrics-advisor/how-tos/alerts) for more details.

## Kusto DB table

This function requires to create a Kusto DB table:

```kql
    .create table anomaly_alerts (incident_id:string, alert_id:string, severity:string, data_feed_id:string, data_feed_name:string, actual_value:decimal, expected_value:decimal, timestamp:datetime)
```

Ingestion sample:

```kql
    .ingest inline into table anomaly_alerts <|
    "181de532112","181de532511","Low","DFID1","DFName1",112,150,2022-07-06T19:00:00Z
```

## Metrics Advisor configuration

Metrics advisor detects anomalies from the dataset which is coming from ADX. When the anomalies are detected in the dataset, metrics advisor creates an alert with an incident ID. Using Metrics Advisor REST API, and passing required parameters from incident report, we can retrieve the alert details and save it to ADX table using azure HTTP trigger function.

In order to get an alert and save it to ADX table, we need to follow the below configuration steps:

### Create Web Hook on Metrics Advisor

See [Metrics Advisor Hook Configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/applied-ai-services/metrics-advisor/how-tos/alerts) for more details.

### Create Alert configuration on Metrics Advisor

Create for alert configuration for getting it's id (METRICS_ADVISOR_ALERT_CONFIGURATION_ID)

### Create feeds on Metrics Advisor

This will give next creds: SLOW_START_FEED_ID

1. In the shared/kusto_service_client.py change this part:

```python
    kcsb_ing = KustoConnectionStringBuilder.with_aad_managed_service_identity_authentication(
        self.cluster_uri, self.client_id
    )
```

to this part:

```python
    kcsb_ing = KustoConnectionStringBuilder.with_az_cli_authentication(
        self.cluster_uri
    )
```

### Detect Anomalies

When metrics advisor detects anomalies, it will trigger an http webhook alert and send the alert info to Azure Http trigger function. Using hook_handler.py we can retrieve the alert details and save it to ADX table. See [Metrics Advisor Hook Handler Code](funtions/../../functions/shared/metrics_advisor_hook_handler.py) for more details.

### REST API call to get alert details

Following paramaters are required to get alert details:

- POST /metricsadvisor/v1.0/metrics/{metricId}/series/query HTTP/1.1
- Host: {Cluster name}.cognitiveservices.azure.com
- Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key: {Azure > Metrics Advisor > MA details page > Resource management > KEY 1}
- x-api-key: {Azure > Metrics Advisor > MA app > API keys > Primary API Key}
- Content-Type: application/json

See[Metrics Advisor Rest API](https://westus2.dev.cognitive.microsoft.com/docs/services/MetricsAdvisor/operations/getIncidentsFromAlertByAnomalyAlertingConfiguration/console) for more details.
